=head1 NAME

PAUSE - Perl Authors Upload Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module is the code that runs L<http://pause.cpan.org/>, a server dedicated
to collect the work of perl authors worldwide.  It provides personal directories
and enables their owners to upload their work into that directory themselves.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Here is an overview of PAUSE's structure:

    apache-conf/       Apache Configuration
    apache-perl/
        user/          User CGI scripts (mod_perl to be precise)
        admin/         Admin CGI scripts (mod_perl to be precise)
    authen/            User Password
    bin/               scripts, mainly paused, the pause daemon
    cron/              cronjobs, mostly symlinked into /etc/cron.jobs
    doc/               :-/
    htdocs/            symlinked to Apache's document root
    lib/               PAUSE.pm and such
    log/               paused.log, the rather verbose output of paused
    man/               empty
    mirror/            mirror configuration, symlinked to /usr/local/mirror
    rc/                boot script
    src/               empty 

The two core scripts are F<bin/paused> and F<cron/mldistwatch>. Both would
need to be broken down into reusable and maintainable code.

PAUSE.pm was originally the pure configuration file, but now also
contains some frequently used routines.

=head2 Excluded files

The following file has been excluded from the repository for obvious
reasons:

    privatelib/PrivatePAUSE.pm

PrivatePAUSE.pm contains only the usernames and passwords of the mysql
users that own the two databases. See below for "Database schema".

Other sensitive files, like the SSL key of the server, password files
need to be maintained separately from the repository. See below the
section about user management.

=head2 File system layout

On PAUSE the files live in /home/k/PAUSE and the following symlinks
make sure that installed programs find their configuration:

(last time updated: 2003-08-03)

  /usr/local/apache/conf            -> ../../../home/k/PAUSE/apache-conf
  /usr/local/apache/htdocs          -> ../../../home/k/PAUSE/htdocs/
  /usr/local/apache/perl            -> ../../../home/k/PAUSE/apache-perl
  /etc/apache2/apache2.conf         -> /home/k/PAUSE/apache-svn-conf/httpd.conf
  /etc/apache2/mods-available/ssl.conf -> /home/k/PAUSE/apache-svn-conf/ssl.conf
  /etc/rsyncd.conf                  -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/rsyncd.conf
  /etc/proftpd.conf                 -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/proftpd.conf
  /etc/mon/mon.cf                   -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/mon/mon.cf
  /etc/mysql/my.cnf                 -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/my.cnf
  /usr/lib/mon/mon.d/paused.monitor -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/mon/mon.d/paused.monitor
  /usr/lib/mon/mon.d/sm-mta.monitor -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/mon/mon.d/sm-mta.monitor

[ MISSING documentation:

  /etc/cron.jobs/indexscripts.pl -> ../../home/kstar/cron/indexscripts.pl
  /etc/security/limits.conf -> /home/k/PAUSE/etc/security/limits.conf

]

(XXX integrate indexscripts.pl with the help of kstar)

=head2 Cronjob table for PAUSE

  02 02 * * 7 /etc/cron.jobs/restart-httpd
  03 03,15 * * * /etc/cron.jobs/msql-dump.sh
  17 4 * * * /etc/cron.jobs/cron-daily.pl
  22 1,5,9,13,17,21 * * * /etc/cron.jobs/mldistwatch
  30 * * * * /etc/cron.jobs/rm_stale_links
  31 * * * * /etc/cron.jobs/gmls-lR.pl
  37 * * * * /etc/cron.jobs/sync-franz-put.sh
  0-59/3 * * * * /etc/cron.jobs/diskwatch -m k / 75000 /M 150000
  53 0,6,12,18 * * * /etc/cron.jobs/run_mirrors.sh
  48 * * * * /usr/bin/perl /usr/local/mirror/mirror -p MICB /usr/local/mirror/mymirror.config > /dev/null

=head2 External programs needed to run PAUSE

  apache with mod_perl and Apache-SSL
  perl
  mirror (the good old one)
  mon
  proftpd
  mysqld
  rsync (runs as daemon)
  subversion (optional)
  gpg
  unzip

At the time of this writing (2003-07-25), all perl scripts were
running under 5.8.0.

=head2 Database schema

See F<doc/mod.schema.txt> and F<doc/authen_pause.schema.txt> for schema
of PAUSE's two databases.

A dump of the mod database is produced every few hours and available for
download in the ftp area. A dump of the authen_pause database is -- of
course -- not available.

=head2 User management

This section is about the fun of making mysql safe based on UNIX user
and group permissions. This is dangerous stuff. Be careful here and
follow the advice in the mysql manual about how to secure mysql in
general. E.g. C<--skip-networking> and root user password are a must,
etc.

PAUSE is running processes as user root, nobody, SVN, ftp, and UNSAFE.
The user "k" in the group "k" owns the working copy of the repository
and all the sensitive files. Group "k" must contain all users who
should be able to read sensitive data. So at least "nobody" (who runs
the webserver) must be in that group. Sensitive directories and files
must be group-readable and must not be world readable. The SSL data
for the webservers should not even be readable by that group, only by
root who starts the webservers.

This setup must ensure that the user UNSAFE cannot read the database
account informations. On the database side this is achieved by
granting delete,index,insert,select,update privileges on the two
tables, nothing else, to one user. This is the user whose access codes
are stored in PrivatePAUSE.pm. The root password to mysql is not
needed by any script, so can be stored offline.

=head2 Other security considerations

We practice security by visibility by giving the users as much
information as possible about the status of their requests. This is
mostly done by sending them mail about every action they take.

Another important axiom is that we disallow overwriting of files
except for pure documentation files. That way the whole CPAN cannot
fall out of sync and inconsistencies can be tracked easily. It opens
us the possibility to maintain a I<backpan>, a backup of all relevant
files of all times. Any attempt to upload malicious code can thus be
tracked much better.

=head2 Missing pieces

As always, there are things we didn't bother to integrate into the
repository because they are so basic stuff for any UNIX machine:

  logrotate
  xntpd
  sendmail

and probably more. If you discover pieces that are important but
missing in the repository or documentation, please let us know.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andreas Koenig E<lt>andreas.koenig@anima.deE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1995 - 2004 by Andreas Koenig E<lt>andreas.koenig@anima.deE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=cut
